# LLM - Detect AI Generated Text

This is kaggle competition to classify texto into AI generated or as a human write.

Some useful informations:

- **Dataset**: 10,000 essays with some written by students and some generated by large language models (LLMs).
- **Objective**: Determine if an essay was generated by an LLM.
- **Essays respond to seven prompts**, with students instructed to read source texts before writing.
- **Training set**: Comprises essays from two prompts, mostly student-written with a few LLM-generated examples.
- **Hidden test set**: Comprises essays from the remaining prompts.
- **Reminder that it's a Code Competition**: The test data (`test_essays.csv`) is dummy data, to be replaced with a full test set of 9,000 essays (both student-written and LLM-generated) during scoring.

## Data

For test and train `(test|train)_essays.csv`:

- `id`: unique identifier for the each essay
- `prompt_id`: identifies the prompt the essay was written
- `text`: the essay text itself
- `generated`:
  - 0 = written by a student
  - 1 = generated by an LLM

For the file `train_prompts.csv`:

- `prompt_id`: unique identifier for each prompt
- `prompt_name`: the title of the prompt
- `instructions`: the instructions given to students
- `source_text`: the text of the article(s) the essays were written in response to, in Markdown format.

There is others information about the `source_text`:

> _Significant paragraphs are enumerated by a numeral preceding the paragraph on the same line, as in 0 Paragraph one.\n\n1 Paragraph two.. Essays sometimes refer to a paragraph by its numeral. Each article is preceded with its title in a heading, like # Title. When an author is indicated, their name will be given in the title after by. Not all articles have authors indicated. An article may have subheadings indicated like ## Subheading._
